== image == 
== image == 

Chapter  14
    Dynamic  Vision  
    * Dynamic Vision  - Essential abilities to cope with for a computer vision system : = moving and changing objects = changing illumination = changing viewpoints  - Dynamic scene analysis system : = input : a sequence of image frames taken from a changing world = objects in the image sequence may be in motion  - The reasons of the changes in a scene :    = the motion of the camera = the motion of objects     = illumination changes = changes in the structure, size,   or shape of an object 

2  - The assumptions of the changes in a scene :      = camera and/or object motion = the objects are either rigid or quasi-rigid = other changes are not allowed - The functions that the dynamic vision system must have :       = detect changes   = determine the motion characteristics of the observer and the objects   = characterize the motion using high-level abstraction   = recover the structure of the objects   = recognize moving objects - Four possibilities for the dynamic nature of the camera and world setup :     = SCSO : stationary camera, stationary objects   = SCMO : stationary camera, moving objects   = MCSO : moving camera, stationary objects   = MCMO : moving camera, moving objects→- In applications such as mobile robots or  autonomous vehicles, a vision system must  analyze an image sequence acquired while in motion 

3 - Comparisons of four possibilities :       Type    Difficulty Frequency Application SCSO Easy Attention Digital Camera SCMO ↓Most attention CCTV MCSO ↓Attention Navigation applications ↓MCMO     Hard Much attention Mobile robot,   Autonomous vehicle  - The input to a dynamic scene analysis system : = frame sequence ),,(tyxF where yx,  are the spatial coordinates in the frame     representing the scene at time t. = the value of the function represents the intensity of the pixel. = we will assume that t represents the tth frame of the sequence, rather than the       frame taken at absolute time t.                 

4 4.1 Change Detection* Change Detection   - Detection of changes in two successive frames of a sequence is very important. - Some change in the sequence of frames of the scene : = any perceptible motion in a scene   = any illumination change in a scene  - Motion characteristics can be analyzed if such changes are detected - Most techniques for dynamic-scene analysis :   = the detection of changes in a frame-to-frame sequence = starting with frame changes, a global analysis of the sequence may be performed = changes can be detected at different levels : pixel, edge, or region             ...           ...            ...            ... frame 1                     frame 11                   frame 22 
5 14.1.1 Difference Pictures * Difference Pictures   - the most obvious method of detecting change between two frame - compare the corresponding pixels of the two frames - Binary difference picture ),(yxDPjk  between frame ),,(jyxF  and ),,(kyxF :   = otherwiseτkyxFjyxFifyxDPjk0),,(),,(1),(  where τ  is a threshold.   - pixels of value 1 may be the result of object motion or illumination changes - Example : F(x, y, j)             F(x, y, k)          ),(yxDPjkτ=10 10 101010 10 10 101010 303030 30 10 101010 303030 30 10 101010 303030 30 10 101010 303030 30 10 101010 101010 10 10 1010101010101010 10 10101010303030 30 10101010303030 30 10101010303030 30 10101010303030 30 10101010101010 10 100 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 

6 Fig 14.1 : Two frames from a sequence, (a) and (b), and their difference picture, (c).     Notice that the changed areas are due to the motion of objects. τ=25. Fig 14.2 : Two frames from a sequence, (a) and (b), and their difference picture, (c). Notice that the changed areas are due to the illumination. τ=25. 

7 * Size Filter   - A difference picture on real scenes usually results in too many noisy pixels. - A size filter is effective in eliminating many noisy areas in the difference picture. - Pixels that do not belong to a connected cluster of a minimum size are usually due to noise and can be filtered out.   - Only pixels in a difference picture that belong to a 4-connected (or 8-connected) component larger than some threshold size are retained for further analysis.      - For motion detection, this filter is very effective, but unfortunately it also filters   some desirable signals, such as those from slow or small moving objects.             Fig 14.3 : The difference picture, (a) and the result of size filter, (b). τ=10. 

8 * Robust Change Detection   - To make change detection more robust, = intensity characteristics of regions or groups of pixels at the same locationin two frames may be compared. = using either a statistical approach or an approach based on the local   approximation of intensity distributions. - A domain-independent method for comparing regions :   = to consider corresponding areas of the frames.  = superpixels ... nonoverlapping rectangular areas of m  rows and n  columns.     = the values of m and n are selected to compensate for the aspect ratio of the camera.  Fig 14.4 : Partitioning frames   for applying the likelihood   ratio test. (a) nonoverlapping   areas, called superpixels.   (b) regular masks representing   the local area of a pixel 

79 = We want to determine rotations matrices, translation vectors, and     three-dimensional coordinates of points to determine the motion and structure.     = To solve for these quantities, we have image plane coordinates of four       points in three frames. Now since we are using orthographic projections,     we know that ijijxx   and    ijijyy.     = Many different approaches have been proposed to solve this underconstrained problem.     = Feature-based methods for the recovery of three-dimensional structure or       for the estimation of motion parameters require two steps:    (1) Determination of precise location of tokens or points.    (2) The correspondence between tokens or points.     = If interest operators are applied based on small neighborhoods, then the     number of tokens extracted in a real image is very large, making       correspondence a difficult problem.     = Interest operators based on a large neighborhood and high-order gray-level     characteristics result in a more reasonable number of tokens for       determining correspondences, but the location of tokens may not be precise. 
- item1
- item2
- item3
- 
80  - Trajectory-Based Methods :   = The above methods depend on a set of points in two or three frames.   = If a token is tracked over several frames by solving correspondences,   a two-dimensional trajectory of the token is obtained.     = Methods for recovering three-dimensional structure and motion from       trajectories are more reliable than methods based on sets of features in       new frames.     = A trajectory may be interpolated to obtain better resolution of the two-     dimensional path by using curve fitting techniques.